---
layout: post
title: "Time in Canada"
author: "Iryna"
categories: travel, Canada
tags: [iryna]
image: 2023-06-20-common-unity.jpg
---

Visiting family in Montana was a very nice break from hiking and soaking in hot springs for Leopold and Nikolai. After taking a break, we continued our journey through Glacier national park and to Banff and Jasper national park where we did a lot more hiking and even a full day of biking. Oh my, that was a lot of biking for all of us 😊

It is always great to know when there is a lot of wildlife in the area, which to me means that nature is in more of a balance versus a human-dominated setting. Animals, especially the wild ones, are certainly the minority and giving them space and leaving healthy environments are essential to their comfortable living. It was happy to be advised to take special precautions and keep distance from wildlife. And even for me it was hard to do. It can be very tempting to get close to that bear when you finally see one. I guess I got so close that I was even asked by a Canada parks person to keep more distance from the bear when we saw one while riding bikes in the Banff area. I agreed that I was being selfish and should respect the bear's space. The more distance the better! In the area we also saw some pretty amazing wildlife corridors, so animals could safely cross the main road. Good job Canadians! 

Hiking was a fun part of the trip, at least for me. One hike was particularly scenic and fun for everyone because halfway through the long almost 10 mile hike there was a tea house and the food was particularly delicious. We had mountain berry tea, berry apple crumble, soup and sandwiches, all made fresh in the house on top of the mountain! The logistics of getting supplies there are quite complicated and made me not want to burden them with my presence once I learned all about it. Still I sure enjoyed the food and the mountain views!

We finished our trip by visiting two eco-villages in British Columbia. The cob mastery is always beyond beautiful. Who would want to live in a conventional house built with toxic materials with a huge environmental footprint and negative health effects plus all those corners after seeing a house built with earth, where the clay actually purifies air and the walls are smooth and can be shaped in any desirable ways. One day I would like to build and live in one... with some help of course! My grandparents and all the other people in their village used to help each other build their natural houses with cob and reeds. They were fully waterproof, warm in winter and cool in summer and every house was unique. Cob is just great!

To finish the trip which happened to be on Father's day, we just had to get donuts and not just any donuts! We got organic, vegan, gluten free donuts. That always makes me feel good whenever I eat things I shouldn't 😊 They were delicious!
